README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://commercelayer.io">
    <img src="https://data.commercelayer.app/assets/logos/glyph/black/commercelayer_glyph_black.svg" height="80" alt="Commerce Layer Logo">
  </a>
  <h3>Commerce Layer Examples</h3>
  <p>A curated collection of examples, use cases, code demos, and experiments that showcases the power of Commerce Layer API and developer tools.</p>
</div>

---

This repository contains example code demos that are not production-ready in most cases. We do not encourage you to use the code directly for production development but you can build on them to develop your own ecommerce applications or integrations. Our goal here is to provide you with different reference code (accompanied by tutorials) that will show you different ways you can build with Commerce Layer. We will constantly add new examples with different technologies and even accept more from our amazing community members, so check back often :).

Here are the parent categories of the examples in this repository:

- [Authentication](./authentication) — Different ways to implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) or single sign-on authentication (SSO) with Commerce Layer.
- [CMS](./cms) — Implementation of multi-market ecommerce web stores with top content management systems.
- [Lambda functions](./lambda-functions) — Several lambda functions you can use to do fun stuff with Commerce Layer.
- [Search](./search) — Implementation of product search and personalization with Commerce Layer and a CMS.
- [Solutions](./solutions) — Demos, use cases, and code sandboxes of several parts of our API and developer tools.
- [Webhooks](./webhooks) — Several ways you can use Commerce Layer webhooks.

---

## Get Started with Commerce Layer

- [All Developer Resources](https://commercelayer.io/developers)
- [Commerce Layer Documentation](https://docs.commercelayer.io)
- [Commerce Layer API Reference](https://docs.commercelayer.io/core/v/api-reference/)
- [Commerce Layer Core Concepts](https://commercelayer.io/docs/core-concepts)
- [Commerce Layer Data Model](https://commercelayer.io/docs/data-model)
- [Commerce Layer Blog](https://commercelayer.io/blog)
- [Commerce Layer Case Studies](https://commercelayer.io/customers)

## Adding a New Example

Kindly follow the following steps to add a new example to this repository:

1. Fork [this repository](https://github.com/commercelayer/examples) (learn how to do this [here](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo)).

2. Clone the forked repository like so:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your username>/examples.git && cd examples
```

3. Choose the right category for your example (refer to the introduction above) and create a new sub-folder for it inside the category folder (use the kebab-case naming convention in lower-case to name the sub-folder).

4. Add your example code and all associated files to the new sub-folder you created.

5. Create a `README.md` file in the new sub-folder and add a description of your example. You can use this [template](./TEMPLATE.md) as a guide (feel free to add more sections and document the example more, as required).

6. Add your example to the list in the category's `README.md` file following the same format as the other examples (follow the sequential alphabetical order by name as seen in your local computer).

7. Make your changes and create a pull request ([learn how to do this](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)).

8. Someone will attend to your pull request, provide some feedback, and eventually merge the PR!

## Need Help?

1. Join [Commerce Layer's Slack community](https://slack.commercelayer.app).

2. Create an [issue](https://github.com/commercelayer/examples/issues) in this repository.

3. Ping us [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/commercelayer).

## License

This repository is published under the [MIT](LICENSE) license.

---

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://commercelayer.io">
    <img src="https://data.commercelayer.app/assets/logos/glyph/black/commercelayer_glyph_black.svg" height="50" alt="Commerce Layer Logo">
  </a>
  <p><a href="https://commercelayer.io/why" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Commerce Layer</a> is a multi-market commerce API and order management system that lets you add global shopping capabilities to any website, mobile app, chatbot, wearable, voice, or IoT device, with ease. Compose your stack with the best-of-breed tools you already mastered and love. Make any experience shoppable, anywhere, through a blazing-fast, enterprise-grade, and <a href="https://docs.commercelayer.io" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">secure API</a>.</p>
</div>

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 add pull request template with checklists

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://commercelayer.io">
    <img src="https://data.commercelayer.app/assets/logos/glyph/black/commercelayer_glyph_black.svg" height="80" alt="Commerce Layer Logo">
  </a>
  <h3>Commerce Layer Examples</h3>
  <p>A curated collection of examples, use cases, code demos, and experiments that showcases the power of Commerce Layer API and developer tools.</p>
</div>

---

This repository contains example code demos that are not production-ready in most cases. We do not encourage you to use the code directly for production development but you can build on them to develop your own ecommerce applications or integrations. Our goal here is to provide you with different reference code (accompanied by tutorials) that will show you different ways you can build with Commerce Layer. We will constantly add new examples with different technologies and even accept more from our amazing community members, so check back often :).

Here are the parent categories of the examples in this repository:

- [Authentication](./authentication) — Different ways to implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) or single sign-on authentication (SSO) with Commerce Layer.
- [CMS](./cms) — Implementation of multi-market ecommerce web stores with top content management systems.
- [Lambda functions](./lambda-functions) — Several lambda functions you can use to do fun stuff with Commerce Layer.
- [Search](./search) — Implementation of product search and personalization with Commerce Layer and a CMS.
- [Solutions](./solutions) — Demos, use cases, and code sandboxes of several parts of our API and developer tools.
- [Webhooks](./webhooks) — Several ways you can use Commerce Layer webhooks.

---

## Get Started with Commerce Layer

- [All Developer Resources](https://commercelayer.io/developers)
- [Commerce Layer Documentation](https://docs.commercelayer.io)
- [Commerce Layer API Reference](https://docs.commercelayer.io/core/v/api-reference/)
- [Commerce Layer Core Concepts](https://commercelayer.io/docs/core-concepts)
- [Commerce Layer Data Model](https://commercelayer.io/docs/data-model)
- [Commerce Layer Blog](https://commercelayer.io/blog)
- [Commerce Layer Case Studies](https://commercelayer.io/customers)

## Adding a New Example

Kindly follow the following steps to add a new example to this repository:

1. Fork [this repository](https://github.com/commercelayer/examples) (learn how to do this [here](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo)).

2. Clone the forked repository like so:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your username>/examples.git && cd examples
```

3. Choose the right category for your example (refer to the introduction above) and create a new sub-folder for it inside the category folder (use the kebab-case naming convention in lower-case to name the sub-folder).

4. Add your example code and all associated files to the new sub-folder you created.

5. Create a `README.md` file in the new sub-folder and add a description of your example. You can use this [template](./TEMPLATE.md) as a guide (feel free to add more sections and document the example more, as required).

6. Add your example to the list in the category's `README.md` file following the same format as the other examples (follow the sequential alphabetical order by name as seen in your local computer).

7. Make your changes and create a pull request ([learn how to do this](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)).

8. Someone will attend to your pull request, provide some feedback, and eventually merge the PR!

## Need Help?

1. Join [Commerce Layer's Slack community](https://slack.commercelayer.app).

2. Create a `Bug report` or `Feature request` [issue](https://github.com/commercelayer/examples/issues) in this repository.

3. Ping us [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/commercelayer).

## License

This repository is published under the [MIT](LICENSE) license.

---

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://commercelayer.io">
    <img src="https://data.commercelayer.app/assets/logos/glyph/black/commercelayer_glyph_black.svg" height="50" alt="Commerce Layer Logo">
  </a>
  <p><a href="https://commercelayer.io/why" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Commerce Layer</a> is a multi-market commerce API and order management system that lets you add global shopping capabilities to any website, mobile app, chatbot, wearable, voice, or IoT device, with ease. Compose your stack with the best-of-breed tools you already mastered and love. Make any experience shoppable, anywhere, through a blazing-fast, enterprise-grade, and <a href="https://docs.commercelayer.io" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">secure API</a>.</p>
</div>
